FEAT(UI SCHEMA): OKTA-448404 - create UI Schema Dev Docs (#3514)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/uischema/index.md

---
title: UI Schema API
category: management
---

# UI Schema API

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" />

> The Okta UI Schema API provides an interface to dictate how inputs are displayed on a form.

Reviewer: I think we can be a bit more concise here. What about:
```suggestion
The Okta UI Schema API allows you to control how inputs appear on a form.
```

## Get started

> - This API is only for Okta Identity Engine. If you’re using Okta Classic Engine, see [Identify your Okta solution](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-oie-version) to determine your Okta version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is only for Okta Identity Engine. If you’re using Okta Classic Engine, see [Identify your Okta solution](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-oie-version) to determine your Okta version.
```

> Explore the UI Schema API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](%linkhere%). % How to generate this link: https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/227648499/How+to+publish+Postman+collections %

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the UI Schema API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](%linkhere%). <!-- How to generate this link: https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/227648499/How+to+publish+Postman+collections -->
```

## UI Schema operations

The UI Schema API has the following CRUD operations:

- [Create a UI Schema](#create-a-ui-schema)

> - [Get UI Schemas](#get-ui-schemas)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Get UI Schemas](#get-all-ui-schemas)
```

- [Get a UI Schema by ID](#get-a-ui-schema-by-id)
- [Update a UI Schema](#update-a-ui-schema)
- [Delete a UI Schema](#delete-a-ui-schema)

### Create a UI Schema

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/meta/uischemas" />

> #### Required scope and role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Required scope
```

> An Okta scope of `okta.uischemas.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`okta.uischemas.manage`
```

#### Request path parameters

N/A

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Request body

> This API requires a [UI Schema Object](#ui-schema-object) as its request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [UI Schema object](#ui-schema-object)
```

#### Response body

> This API returns the created [UI Schema Request object](#ui-schema-request-object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the created [UI Schema Request object](#ui-schema-request-object)
```
